## Problem Statement

Make an user-managament website that have following features:

1. `Authentication system (login, register, logout)` : Register Page will have only one email field, other data will be generated by an API. Login will have only email field, if the email is registered it will redirect you to home page and if not it says email not registered.

2. `User Data Display` : Generated Data will display in home page. The data are first name, last name, country, email, and role.

3. `Other user's data display` : Users with `Cooler Kid` or `Coolest Kid` role only can access this feature, Users with `Cool Kid` role can not access this feature. User with `Coolest Kid` role can access email and role of the users as well and can even update their roles.

  

## Tech Stack

Frontend : React.js

Backend : Node.js

Database : MongoDB

  

## Technical Specifications
1. Authentication : Used JWT (JSON Web Token) for Authentication as it is stateless . 
2. Email Verification : Used validator package to validate emails for both frontend and backend.
3. API Testing : Tested API's with postman.
4. Frontend UI : Beautiful UI made with React.js.
5. State management : Used Context API for state management in frontend.
6. Sensitive Data : Added a .env file to save sensitive data.
7. Fetching Data : Used Axios to fetch data as it is easy to use.
8. Message Display : Used react hot toast to display messages.
9. Navigation : Used react router dom to navigate through pages without reload (SPA). 
10. Clean Code : Used Eslint to monitor errors in both frontend and backend.
11. CI Pipeline : For CI pipeline, I have used github actions.
12. Version Control : Git and Github.

## Working
 When we login or register it creates a token and make a session of two hours for which he/she can access data without asking for login again and again. If register, other data like name and country is generated by the frontend using an API. A default role is given which is `Cool Kid`.If you register with email `coolkidsnetwork@gmail.com`, backend will automatically gives `Coolest Kid` role for this email user. After login, it fetches data of the user using an API, and display it on the screen. There are three buttons in home page My Data (Home) , Users Data and Logout. Users Data button is not accessible for the user with role `Cool Kid` . User with role `Cooler Kid` can only access name and country of other users but user with role `Coolest Kid` can access email and role as well and can even update roles of the users.

## Set up tutorial
1. Clone the repository in your local computer.
2. Software Requirement :- Node.js and MongoDB.
3. Open two terminals, One for frontend and one for backend.
4. cd into the files `cd frontend` and `cd backend`.
5. Run this command in both file `npm install` in both terminal.
6. make a `.env file` in frontend and `config.env` in backend and add variables mentioned in `example.config.env` file in both files.
7. Now, run this command in both terminal `npm run dev`.
8. Your app is running on port 5173.
